.TH CURL 1 "2026-05-18" "OurOS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
curl \- transfer a URL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B curl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIURL\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Transfer data from or to a server using one of the supported protocols
(HTTP, HTTPS, FTP).  curl is designed to work without user interaction.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR
Write output to FILE instead of stdout.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR
Write output to a file named as the remote file.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
Follow redirects.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Silent mode, do not show progress meter or error messages.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Make the operation more talkative.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIHEADER\fR
Pass custom header to the server (e.g. "Content-Type: application/json").
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIDATA\fR
Send DATA in a POST request.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR \fIMETHOD\fR
Specify request method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.).
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIUSER:PASSWORD\fR
Server user and password for authentication.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-insecure\fR
Allow insecure server connections when using TLS.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-head\fR
Fetch headers only.
.TP
\fB\-\-connect\-timeout\fR \fISECONDS\fR
Maximum time for the connection phase.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
curl https://example.com           Fetch a web page
curl -o page.html https://ex.com   Save to file
curl -LO https://host/file.tar.gz Download following redirects
curl -X POST -d '{"k":"v"}' url   POST JSON data
curl -sI https://example.com      Fetch headers silently
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wget (1),
.BR ssh (1)
.SH AUTHOR
OurOS Contributors.
