.TH GREP 1 "2026-05-18" "OurOS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
grep \- print lines that match patterns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grep
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIPATTERN\fR [\fIFILE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Search for PATTERN in each FILE.  When FILE is \-, read standard input.
By default, grep prints the matching lines.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-case\fR
Ignore case distinctions in patterns and data.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-invert\-match\fR
Select non-matching lines.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR
Print only a count of matching lines per file.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-files\-with\-matches\fR
Print only names of files with matches.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-line\-number\fR
Prefix each line of output with the 1-based line number.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recursive\fR
Recursively search subdirectories.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-extended\-regexp\fR
Interpret PATTERN as an extended regular expression (ERE).
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fixed\-strings\fR
Interpret PATTERN as a fixed string.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-word\-regexp\fR
Match only whole words.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-line\-regexp\fR
Match only whole lines.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR \fINUM\fR
Print NUM lines of trailing context after matches.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fINUM\fR
Print NUM lines of leading context before matches.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fINUM\fR
Print NUM lines of context around matches.
.TP
\fB\-\-color\fR[=\fIWHEN\fR]
Highlight matching text; WHEN is 'always', 'auto', or 'never'.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
grep "error" log.txt         Search for "error"
grep -rn "TODO" src/         Recursive search with line numbers
grep -i "hello" *.txt        Case-insensitive search
grep -v "^#" config          Show non-comment lines
grep -c "fail" test.log      Count matching lines
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR sed (1),
.BR awk (1)
.SH AUTHOR
OurOS Contributors.
