.TH LS 1 "2026-05-18" "OurOS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ls \- list directory contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
List information about the FILEs (the current directory by default).
Sort entries alphabetically unless a sort option is given.
.PP
If no FILE is specified, list the contents of the current directory.
If FILE is a regular file, display information about that file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Do not ignore entries starting with .
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Use a long listing format showing permissions, owner, size, and date.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-human\-readable\fR
With \fB\-l\fR, print sizes in human-readable format (e.g. 1K, 234M).
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recursive\fR
List subdirectories recursively.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fR
Reverse order while sorting.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR
Sort by file size, largest first.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Sort by modification time, newest first.
.TP
\fB\-1\fR
List one file per line.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-classify\fR
Append indicator (one of */=>@|) to entries.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directory\fR
List directories themselves, not their contents.
.TP
\fB\-\-color\fR[=\fIWHEN\fR]
Colorize the output; WHEN can be 'always', 'auto', or 'never'.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
ls                   List current directory
ls -la               Long format, including hidden files
ls -lhS /tmp         Long format, human sizes, sorted by size
ls -R /usr           Recursive listing
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dir (1),
.BR find (1)
.SH AUTHOR
OurOS Contributors.
