.TH MAN 1 "2026-05-18" "SlateOS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
man \- display manual pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fISECTION\fR] \fINAME\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Display the manual page for the given NAME.  If SECTION is provided,
only search that section.  Otherwise, search all sections and display
the first match.
.PP
The \fBman\fR utility formats and displays the on-line manual pages.
It searches embedded pages first, then the MANPATH directories.
Pages are rendered with ANSI colour and piped through \fBless\fR(1)
if available.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIKEYWORD\fR
Search man page names and descriptions for KEYWORD (like \fBapropos\fR).
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fINAME\fR
Display one-line description of NAME (like \fBwhatis\fR).
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
Display all matching pages, not just the first.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR
Print the location of the man page instead of displaying it.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show usage information.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBMANPATH\fR
Colon-separated list of directories to search for man pages.
Defaults to /usr/share/man:/usr/local/share/man.
.TP
\fBTERM\fR
Used to determine if colour output is appropriate.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
man ls                    View the ls manual
man 1 grep                View grep in section 1
man -k network            Search for network-related pages
man -f mount              Show one-line description
man -a kill               Show all sections for kill
man -w ssh                Print man page file path
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apropos (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR less (1)
.SH AUTHOR
SlateOS Contributors.
