.TH SCREEN 1 "2026-05-18" "OurOS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
screen \- terminal multiplexer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B screen
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
screen is a full-screen window manager that multiplexes a physical
terminal between several processes (typically interactive shells).
Each virtual terminal provides the functions of a standard terminal.
.PP
Programs continue to run when their window is not visible, even if
the user disconnects.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fINAME\fR
Name the session for easy reattachment.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR [\fINAME\fR]
Reattach to a detached session.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Detach a running session.
.TP
\fB\-d \-r\fR [\fINAME\fR]
Detach and reattach (steal) a session.
.TP
\fB\-ls\fR, \fB\-list\fR
List all sessions.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Attach to an already-attached session (multi-display mode).
.TP
\fB\-dm\fR
Start in detached mode.
.SH "KEY BINDINGS"
The default command character is \fBCtrl-a\fR.
.TP
\fBCtrl-a c\fR
Create a new window.
.TP
\fBCtrl-a n\fR / \fBCtrl-a p\fR
Switch to next / previous window.
.TP
\fBCtrl-a d\fR
Detach from the session.
.TP
\fBCtrl-a k\fR
Kill the current window.
.TP
\fBCtrl-a "\fR
List all windows for selection.
.TP
\fBCtrl-a [\fR
Enter copy/scrollback mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
screen                    Start a new session
screen -S work            Named session
screen -r work            Reattach to "work"
screen -ls                List sessions
screen -d -r stuck        Force reattach
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1)
.SH AUTHOR
OurOS Contributors.
