.TH SSH 1 "2026-05-18" "OurOS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh \- OpenSSH remote login client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIUSER\fR@]\fIHOSTNAME\fR [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
ssh (Secure Shell) is a program for logging into a remote machine and for
executing commands on a remote machine.  It provides secure encrypted
communications between two untrusted hosts over an insecure network.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIPORT\fR
Port to connect to on the remote host (default 22).
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIIDENTITY_FILE\fR
Select a file from which the identity (private key) for public key
authentication is read.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIUSER\fR
Specify the user to log in as on the remote machine.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR \fI[BIND:]PORT:HOST:HOSTPORT\fR
Local port forwarding.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR \fI[BIND:]PORT:HOST:HOSTPORT\fR
Remote port forwarding.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fI[BIND:]PORT\fR
Dynamic application-level port forwarding (SOCKS proxy).
.TP
\fB\-N\fR
Do not execute a remote command (useful for port forwarding).
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Go to background just before command execution.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose mode (for debugging).  Multiple \fB\-v\fR increases verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Enable X11 forwarding.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIOPTION\fR
Set configuration option (e.g. StrictHostKeyChecking=no).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
ssh user@host                 Log in to remote host
ssh -p 2222 user@host         Connect on non-standard port
ssh user@host ls /tmp         Run a remote command
ssh -L 8080:localhost:80 host Local port forward
ssh -i ~/.ssh/mykey host      Use specific identity file
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scp (1),
.BR ssh-keygen (1),
.BR ssh_config (5)
.SH AUTHOR
OurOS Contributors.
